# Code of Conduct #

__PyCon CZ__ is a community conference intended for networking and
collaboration in the developer community.

We value the participation of __each member__ of the __Python
community__ and want all attendees to have an enjoyable and
fulfilling experience. Accordingly, all attendees are expected to
show __respect__ and __courtesy__ to other attendees throughout the
conference and at all official conference events sponsored by PyCon
CZ.

To make clear what is expected, all attendees, speakers, organizers,
volunteers or other persons at any official PyCon CZ event are
required to conform to the following Code of Conduct. Organizers will
enforce this code throughout the event.

## The Short Version ##

__PyCon CZ__ is dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference
experience for everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation,
physical appearance, body size, disability, race, ethnicity,
religion, or otherwise. We do not tolerate harassment of conference
participants in any form, on-line or off-line.

All communication should be appropriate for a professional audience
including people of many different backgrounds. Sexual language and
imagery is not appropriate for any conference venue, including talks.

Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other attendees. Behave
professionally. Remember that harassment and sexist, racist, or
exclusionary jokes are not appropriate for PyCon CZ.

> If a person engages in harassing behaviour, the organizers will take
> prompt action, including expulsion from PyCon CZ event without a
> refund. Thank you for helping make this a welcoming, friendly event
> for all.

## The Longer Version ##

Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender,
sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race,
religion, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation,
stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, offensive
verbal comments, sustained disruption of talks or other events,
inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

> Participants asked to stop any harassing behaviour are expected to
> comply immediately.

Sponsor and vendor booths or similar activities are also subject to
the anti-harassment policy. In particular, sponsors and vendors
should not use sexualized images, activities, or other offensive
material. Booth staff (including volunteers) should not wear
sexualized clothing/uniforms/costumes, or otherwise create a
sexualized environment. No alcoholic beverages may be served at the
booths.

Be careful with the words that you choose. Remember that sexist,
racist, and other exclusionary jokes may be offensive to those around
you. Excessive swearing and offensive jokes, excessive alcohol
consumption, and use of illegal drugs are not appropriate for PyCon
CZ.

> If a participant engages in behaviour that violates this Code of
> Conduct, the conference organizers will take an appropriate action,
> including warning the offender or expulsion from the conference with
> no refund.

## Contact Information ##

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being
harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact a member of the
conference staff. Conference staff will be visibly marked.

If the matter is especially urgent, please call/contact any of these
organizers:

- contact 1
- contact 2

Conference staff will be happy to help participants provide escorts,
contact local law enforcement, or otherwise assist those experiencing
harassment to feel safe for the duration of the conference. We value
your attendance.

## Attendee Incident Handling Procedure

1. Keep in mind that all conference staff will be wearing a
   conference t-shirt/button with the word “STAFF” on it (or
   otherwise clearly marked as staff). The staff will also be
   prepared to handle the incidents. All our staff are informed about
   the code of conduct policy and guide for handling harassment at
   the conference.

2. Report the harassment incident (preferably in writing) to a
   conference staff member PRIVATELY. All reports are confidential.
   Please do not disclose public information about the incident until
   the staff have had sufficient time in which to address the
   situation. This is as much for your safety and protection as it is
   for other attendees.

When reporting the incident to the staff, try to gather as much
information as available but do not interview people about the
incident. Staff will assist you in writing the report/collecting
information.

The important information consists of:

- Identifying information (name) of the participant doing the
  harassing.
- The behaviour that was in violation.
- The approximate time of the behaviour.
- The circumstances surrounding the incident.
- Other people involved in the incident.
- The staff is well informed on how to deal with the incident and how
  to further proceed with the situation.

3. If everyone is presently physically safe, involve law enforcement
   or security only at the victim's request. If you do feel your
   safety is in jeopardy please do not hesitate to contact local law
   enforcement by dialing 112 (international emergency number) or 158
   (czech number for police). Both numbers are free of charge. If you
   do not have a cell phone, you can ask a staff member.

Note: Incidents that violate the Code of Conduct are extremely
damaging to the community, and they will not be tolerated. The silver
lining is that, in many cases, these incidents present a chance for
the offenders, and the community at large, to grow, learn, and become
better. PyCon CZ staff request that they be your first resource when
reporting a PyCon-related incident, so that they may enforce the Code
of Conduct and take quick action towards a solution.

If at all possible, all reports should be made directly to *contact*.

## License ##

This Code of Conduct was forked from the example policy from the
[Geek Feminism
wiki](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy),
created by the Ada Initiative and other volunteers which is under a
[Creative Commons Zero
license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).

The Attendee Incident Handling Procedure was adopted from the guide
titled [Conference anti-harassment/Responding to
reports](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Responding_to_reports).
